


Organized by
Department of Chemical Engineering
IIT (ISM) Dhanbad










About the Conference: 
Net-zero emissions refer to balancing anthropogenic greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions with their removal from the atmosphere. Achieving this balance is essential for sustainable development and limiting global warming. The transition to a net-zero future requires transformative technologies that decarbonize energy, industrial, and transportation systems while minimizing carbon dioxide (CO₂) emissions. Emerging technologies such as carbon capture, utilization, and storage (CCUS), direct air capture (DAC), green hydrogen, renewable energy, bioenergy, advanced energy storage, separation processes, and artificial intelligence for energy optimization are expected to play a crucial role in this transition. However, significant technical, economic, and policy challenges remain, necessitating interdisciplinary research and strong collaboration among academia, industry, and government. The Two-Day National Conference on Net-Zero Emission Technologies for Sustainable Development: Challenges and Opportunities (N0ET–2027) provides a platform for researchers, academicians, industry professionals, policymakers, and students to exchange ideas, present cutting-edge research, and explore innovative solutions for a low-carbon future. The conference aims to promote scientific collaboration and technological advancements that support India's Net-zero 2070 commitment and contribute to achieving the Paris Agreement goal of limiting the global temperature rise to 1.5 °C.
About the Department
Since its inception in 2010, the department aimed to instill in all the students the essential skills of critical thinking, and creative problem-solving for their success in the practice of chemical engineering. The department offers academic and research programs leading to B.Tech, M.Tech, and PhD degrees. Many of the graduated students are placed in reputed national and multinational organizations such as IOCL, BPCL, ONGC, GAIL, Reliance Industries Ltd, L&T, Vedanta, Haldia Petrochemicals Ltd, and Aditya Birla. A substantial number of the students are also engaged in higher studies and research in reputed institutes in India and abroad. The department has been actively involved in different collaborative and multidisciplinary research projects sponsored by CIL, DST, DST FIST, ANRF, SAIL, TATA Steel, NJB, TEXMiN, etc., thereby maintaining and modernizing its research infrastructure. The department strongly emphasizes developing and maintaining strong collaborative and cooperative links with private and public sector industries, R&D houses, government user departments as well as premier academic and research institutions within the country and abroad for the advancement of knowledge and the benefit of society.
Major Themes
Clean Energy Innovation
Carbon Capture, Utilization & Storage (CCUS)
Green Hydrogen
Renewable Energy
Energy Storage Systems
Materials Science & Nanotechnology
Electro, Chemical, Bio & Photo-catalysis
Circular Economy
Other Relevant Areas
Programs:
Keynote Talks
Invited Talks
Oral/Poster Presentations

Call for Abstract
The conference invites abstracts from faculty members, students, scientists, researchers, and industry professionals. The abstract should be limited within to 200-250 words. The abstract should report original research on any of the topics in the highlighted major themes/relevant areas, but not limited to the major themes. 
Official Email ID for all correspondence and submission of registration: n0et@iitism.ac.in
For detailed guidelines on the abstract submission, please visit the following link:
N0ET-2027 
All the submitted abstracts would be subject to peer review.
Important Dates:

Registration Fees:

For further details on registration and payment, please visit the following link:
N0ET-27 Payment
Sponsorship:
For sponsorship rates, please visit at this link: N0ET-27 Sponsorship

Chief Patron: Prof. Prem Vrat, Chairman, IIT (ISM) Dhanbad
Patron: Prof. Sukumar Misra, Director, IIT (ISM) Dhanbad
Co-Patron: Prof. Sarat Kumar Das, Dy. Director, IIT(ISM) Dhanbad
Chairman: Prof. Aditya Kumar, Head, Chemical Engineering
Local Organizing Committee
Convener: Prof. Paidinaidu Paluri
Co-Convener: Prof. Arunkumar Samanta and Prof. Lutukurthi D N V V Konda


Advisory Committee:

Core Committee:
Prof. Aritra Santra
Prof. Bidhan Chandra
Prof. Ejaz Ahmad
Prof. Khantesh Agrawal
Prof. Krishna Sandilya Durbha
Prof. Mahendra N Nandanwar
Prof. Pantula D Priyanka
Prof. Sandip Mandal
Prof. Siddhartha Sengupta
Prof. Soubhik Kumar Bhaumik
Prof. Soumyajit Sen Gupta
Prof. Sourav Sengupta
Prof. Suman Dutta
Prof. Suresh Kumar Yatirajula

Local Advisory Committee
Prof. Sarat Kumar Das, Dy.Director, IIT(ISM) Dhanbad

Contact Us:


Registration Form
Two-day National Conference 
On
Net-zero Emission Technologies for Sustainable Development: Challenges and Opportunities (N0ET-2027)
January 29-30, 2027
Registration fees and other payments can be done using the following details:

For further details on registration and payment, please visit the following link: N0ET-27 Payment
Date:   																																						Signature of the applicant